Attribute array (#11)
AzureCosmosDB/design-patterns: attribute-array/README.md

---

# Azure Cosmos DB design pattern: Attribute Array

The attribute pattern can be defined as a JSON object consisting of multiple similar properties or fields that should be grouped together in a collection for better indexing and sorting.

The main advantage to this pattern is that rather creating multiple indexes for every property/field, we can now focus on one particular path to index.  And in the case where you have to add another property/field later, it can be easily added to the collection versus a data model change and the adding of a new index to support it.

> This sample demonstrates:
>
> - ✅ Creation of several objects based on attribute and non-attribute data patterns.
> - ✅ Querying both attribute and non-attribute objects in a container.
>
## Common scenario

A common scenario for using a NoSQL attribute array design pattern is when you have entities with a large number of attributes that can vary in number and type. This pattern is particularly useful when the attributes of an entity are not well-defined or fixed, and you want to avoid schema changes or migrations.

> 
> Here's an example scenario to illustrate the use of a NoSQL attribute array design pattern:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Let's remove this line, there's no need to "tee it up."

    "MaximumGuests": 0
}
```

> ## Try this implementation
> 
> You can try out this implementation with GitHub Codespaces:
> 
> - **Codespace**: Running the code in GitHub Codespaces with a [free Azure Cosmos DB account](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/try-free). (*This option doesn't require an Azure subscription, just a GitHub account.*)
> 
> This option requires only a [GitHub account](https://github.com/join) to run the codespace and create a free Azure Cosmos DB account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Try this implementation

You can try out this implementation by running the code in [GitHub Codespaces](https://docs.github.com/codespaces/overview) with a [free Azure Cosmos DB account](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/cosmos-db/try-free). (*This option doesn't require an Azure subscription, just a GitHub account.*)
```

I streamlined this in the [template](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/cosmos-db-design-patterns/blob/template/template.md?plain=1) based on your feedback. Here's the updated blurb.

    | | Value |
    | --- | --- |
    | **Database name** | `CosmosPatterns` |
    | **Container name** | `Hotels` |
    | **Partition key path** | `/hotelId` |
    | **Throughput** | `400` (*Manual*) |

1. In the Data Explorer, create a new container using the `CosmosPatters` Database for the Product App Container with the following values:

    | | Value |
    | --- | --- |
    | **Database name** | `CosmosPatterns` |
    | **Container name** | `Products` |
    | **Partition key path** | `/productId` |
    | **Throughput** | `400` (*Manual*) |

1. Open the application code in a GitHub Codespace:

    [![Illustration of a button with the GitHub icon and the text "Open in GitHub Codespaces."](../media/open-github-codespace-button.svg)](https://github.com/codespaces/new?hide_repo_select=true&ref=main&repo=613998360)

## Set up environment variables
1. Once the template deployment is complete, select **Go to resource group**.
1. Select the new Azure Cosmos DB for NoSQL account.
1. From the navigation, under **Settings**, select **Keys**. The values you need for the environment variables for the demo are here.

> Create 2 environment variables to run the demos:
> 
> - `COSMOS_ENDPOINT`: set to the `URI` value on the Azure Cosmos DB account Keys blade.
> - `COSMOS_KEY`: set to the Read-Write `PRIMARY KEY` for the Azure Cosmos DB for NoSQL account
> 
> Open a terminal in your GitHub Codespace and create your Bash variables with the following syntax:
> 
> ```bash
> export COSMOS_ENDPOINT="YOUR_COSMOS_ENDPOINT"
> export COSMOS_KEY="YOUR_COSMOS_KEY"
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create 2 environment variables to run the demos:

    - `COSMOS_ENDPOINT`: set to the `URI` value on the Azure Cosmos DB account Keys blade.
    - `COSMOS_KEY`: set to the Read-Write `PRIMARY KEY` for the Azure Cosmos DB for NoSQL account

1. Open a terminal in your GitHub Codespace and create your Bash variables with the following syntax:

    ```bash
    export COSMOS_ENDPOINT="YOUR_COSMOS_ENDPOINT"
    export COSMOS_KEY="YOUR_COSMOS_KEY"
    ```
```
